= DESCRIPTION:

This is a recipe and definition for Chef that makes it easy to configure a firewall within your recipes.
Including the recipe sets the firewall to a reasonably secure default of deny all incoming but allow all outgoing packets.
In addition the recipe provides a chef definition which makes it simple to open the firewall in the recipe which configures the service that needs it.
The dream is you can configure a server to allow port 80 if and only if an web server recipe is run and always when the web server ecipe is run.

= REQUIREMENTS:

UFW (Uncomplicated Firewall) is the default firewall configuration tool for Ubuntu.  It is shipped by default on modern versions Ubuntu.  It can be 
installed on Debian and probably Redhat style distros but the

= ATTRIBUTES:

If you don't specify an attribute then it gets its default value.  You MUST specify one attribute else it will disable the firewall.

 - from - Source address of packets.  Defaults to "any".
 - to - Destination address of packets.  Defaults to "any".
 - port - Destination port of packets.  Defaults to "any".
 - proto - Protocol of packets.  One of udp, tcp.  Defaults to "tcp".
 - action - WHat to do with packets.  one of allow, deny.  Default is "allow".

= USAGE:

Let's explain with a couple examples.  Imagine we are in a recipe:

# First pull in the UFW recipe
require "ufw::default"

# Next let's say you add ruby on rails
require "myapp::rails"

# Finally open up the firewall for rails dev
ufw_rule "firewall allow rails" do
  port "3000"
  from "10.0.0.0/8"
end

= COPYRIGHT:

Copyright 2011 Dennis Watson. All rights reserved.
Redistributable under terms of the 2 clause BSD Licence.  See COPYRIGHT file.

= TODO:

 - Could be parameterized; list of ports we want opened by default or another flag if we want the default deny incomping packets rule applied.
 - Install UFW if not installed by default like on Debian and RedHat.
 - Test on non-ubuntu distros; debian, redhat.
 - Test various incantaions of the ufw_rule definition.

= SEE ALSO:

  UFW Uncomplicated Firewall Documentation - https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UFW
  iptables - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iptables
